README.md, before:

# IRSScrape

## Background
This is a take home interview problem that I did for a fintech company looking into hiring Software Engineers for their Integrations time. For the interview, I was required to write two tasks that searches through the Prior Year Products webpage from the IRS website, https://apps.irs.gov/, and do the following:
1. Taking a list of tax forms, generating a JSON object with a list of dictionary objects with information regarding the tax forms including
	- Tax form name
	- Tax form description
	- Minimum and maximum years available for download
2. Taking a tax form name and a range of years, download all available PDF forms and save it into a directory based on the tax form name

## Requirements
- Python 3.9.5
- Python Libraries
	- beautifulsoup4 - 4.9.3
	- requests - 2.25.1
	- pandas - 1.2.4
	- numpy - 1.20.3
	- lxml - 4.6.3

## Instructions
1. Run the requirements.txt file in the folder "Pinwheel_Interview_Problem"
```cmd
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
2. Task 1: tableToJSON
	- Run the first task of the problem from the folder "Pinwheel_Interview_Problem/tableToJSON". The script tableToJSON.py takes in command line arguments as input parameters where the arguments are text files for test cases which are located in the folder "Pinwheel_Interview_Problem/tableToJSON/test_cases". 
	- After running the script, the JSON object is saved in the folder "Pinwheel_Interview_Problem/tableToJSON/results". If a list has an incorrect tax form name, the script with print out the incorrect forms for review. 
	
	```cmd
		python tableToJSON.py [test case text file] [test case text file] ...
	```
	 Example
	```cmd
		$ python tableToJSON.py "test_cases/test1.txt"
		Test case file: test_cases/test1.txt
		Test Complete

		Task Complete
	```
	
	```cmd		
		$ python tableToJSON.py "test_cases/test2.txt" "test_cases/test6.txt"
		Test case file: test_cases/test2.txt
		Test Complete

		Test case file: test_cases/test6.txt
		The following forms do not exist in the Prior Products Page.
		1.) Form W-111211
		2.) Form 990-T (Schedule RR)
		3.) Form 392B2
		4.) Form 439999
		Test Complete

		Task Complete		
	```
	
	3. Task 2: formPDFDownload
		- Run the second task of the problem from the folder "Pinwheel_Interview_problem/formPDFDownload". The script, formPDFDownload.py, takes in command line arguments as input parameters where the arguements are the following:
			- The tax form name
			- Start year for range
			- End year for range
		- After running the script, the tax forms are downloaded into a folder named after the tax form name. The script also prints the files that don't exist within the year range or in the website.

	```cmd
		python formPDFDownload.py [tax form name] [startYear] [endYear]
	```
	 Example
	```cmd
		$ python formPDFDownload.py "Form W-2" 2017 2021
		Downloading Files
		Tax form download successful: Form W-2 - 2017.pdf
		Tax form download successful: Form W-2 - 2018.pdf
		Tax form download successful: Form W-2 - 2019.pdf
		Tax form download successful: Form W-2 - 2020.pdf
		Tax form download successful: Form W-2 - 2021.pdf

		Task Complete
	```
	
	```cmd
		$ python formPDFDownload.py "Form 1040" 2020 2022
		Downloading Files
		Tax form download successful: Form 1040 - 2020.pdf
		Form 1040 for year 2021 does not exist.
		Form 1040 for year 2022 does not exist.

		Task Complete
	```
	
	```cmd
		$ python formPDFDownload.py "Form B-14" 2001 2010
		Downloading Files
		Form B-14 does not exist

		Task Complete
	```

Commit message:

Updated README file with update

README.md, after:

# IRSScrape

## Background
This is a take home interview problem that I did for a fintech company looking into hiring Software Engineers for their Integrations team. For the interview, I was required to write two tasks that searches through the Prior Year Products webpage from the IRS website, https://apps.irs.gov/, and do the following:
1. Taking a list of tax forms, generating a JSON object with a list of dictionary objects with information regarding the tax forms including
	- Tax form name
	- Tax form description
	- Minimum and maximum years available for download
2. Taking a tax form name and a range of years, download all available PDF forms and save it into a directory based on the tax form name

## Requirements
- Python 3.9.5
- Python Libraries
	- beautifulsoup4 - 4.9.3
	- requests - 2.25.1
	- pandas - 1.2.4
	- numpy - 1.20.3
	- lxml - 4.6.3

## Instructions
1. Run the requirements.txt file in the folder "Pinwheel_Interview_Problem"
```cmd
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
2. Task 1: tableToJSON
	- Run the first task of the problem from the folder "Pinwheel_Interview_Problem/tableToJSON". The script tableToJSON.py takes in command line arguments as input parameters where the arguments are text files for test cases which are located in the folder "Pinwheel_Interview_Problem/tableToJSON/test_cases". 
	- After running the script, the JSON object is saved in the folder "Pinwheel_Interview_Problem/tableToJSON/results". If a list has an incorrect tax form name, the script with print out the incorrect forms for review. 
	
	```cmd
		python tableToJSON.py [test case text file] [test case text file] ...
	```
	 Example
	```cmd
		$ python tableToJSON.py "test_cases/test1.txt"
		Test case file: test_cases/test1.txt
		Test Complete

		Task Complete
	```
	
	```cmd		
		$ python tableToJSON.py "test_cases/test2.txt" "test_cases/test6.txt"
		Test case file: test_cases/test2.txt
		Test Complete

		Test case file: test_cases/test6.txt
		The following forms do not exist in the Prior Products Page.
		1.) Form W-111211
		2.) Form 990-T (Schedule RR)
		3.) Form 392B2
		4.) Form 439999
		Test Complete

		Task Complete		
	```
	
	3. Task 2: formPDFDownload
		- Run the second task of the problem from the folder "Pinwheel_Interview_problem/formPDFDownload". The script, formPDFDownload.py, takes in command line arguments as input parameters where the arguements are the following:
			- The tax form name
			- Start year for range
			- End year for range
		- After running the script, the tax forms are downloaded into a folder named after the tax form name. The script also prints the files that don't exist within the year range or in the website.

	```cmd
		python formPDFDownload.py [tax form name] [startYear] [endYear]
	```
	 Example
	```cmd
		$ python formPDFDownload.py "Form W-2" 2017 2021
		Downloading Files
		Tax form download successful: Form W-2 - 2017.pdf
		Tax form download successful: Form W-2 - 2018.pdf
		Tax form download successful: Form W-2 - 2019.pdf
		Tax form download successful: Form W-2 - 2020.pdf
		Tax form download successful: Form W-2 - 2021.pdf

		Task Complete
	```
	
	```cmd
		$ python formPDFDownload.py "Form 1040" 2020 2022
		Downloading Files
		Tax form download successful: Form 1040 - 2020.pdf
		Form 1040 for year 2021 does not exist.
		Form 1040 for year 2022 does not exist.

		Task Complete
	```
	
	```cmd
		$ python formPDFDownload.py "Form B-14" 2001 2010
		Downloading Files
		Form B-14 does not exist

		Task Complete
	```
	
# EDIT: 08-26-2021

## Job Response

The company replied back to the assignment and unfornately I didn't make it into the next round for the position. This was the feedback giving from the grader.

"The code organization was very thorough and followed all of the requirements. The approach used scrapes the entire IRS form website and saves it as a file to reuse on subsequent runs - this means the first run is extremely slow, and generally this approach is not the correct one. JSON output is correct with helpful output on incorrect form names. PDF download does not appear to work and gives a "form does not exist" message for any form."

I was doing more research on web scraping and I came to learn that there are various web scraping techniques that are well-known in the industry. I have to do more research on that and Selenium.

TO DO:

1.) Do more research on web scraping techniques and selenium
2.) Look into a technique that'll make the first run not extremely slow.
